# Biodiversity_Intactness_Phoneix_AZ
A brief analysis in the changes in biodiversity intactness from 2017 to 2020 in Phoneix, Arizona.

### A quick summary of the data:

The Biodiversity Intactness Index from Planetary Computer is generated by ImpactObservation and Vizzuality, and is an estimation of species abundance, richness, counts, and 'Compositional Similarity', which compares each sample ecosystem to an intact baseline. The methods utilized to estimate spatial biodiversity were developed in the paper “Global 100m Projections of Biodiversity Intactness for the years 2017-2020.”

This data used for modeling was sampled across 32,000 sites over 750 individual studies, and compiled into the PREDICTS database. Using this STAC collection, we can compare the Biodiversity Intactness Index for different locations or, in our case, the same location across different years.

To visualize our region of interest, we downloaded a shapefile of the counties in Arizona and filter to geometries from the Phoenix area. This data is collected by the U.S. Census Bureau's Master Address File / Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing (MAF/TIGER) Database (MTDB).

### Data Analysis Objectives:

- Utilize the Planetary Computer STAC catalog to access the `io-biodiversity` data for 2017 and 2020, and load it in using `pystac_client`.

- Create a map of Phoenix County from US National Census data boundaries, and use `contextily` to provide greater context for the boundary with an appropriate basemap.

- Find areas with BII loss of at least 75% from 2017 to 2020, and use the `matplotlib.color` package to assign a cmap for the data represnted as 0 (not 75%) or 1 (at least 75%) values.

- Visualizing the difference in BII loss between 2017 and 2020, and use the `matplotlib.lines` package to create a legend, indicating which pixels were present in the 2017 data but not in the 2020.

### Resources:

1.) Microsoft Planetary Computer, STAC Catalog. Biodiversity Intactness. (2024). [Dataset].   https://planetarycomputer.microsoft.com/dataset/io-biodiversity. Accessed 12/07/2024.

2.) United States Census Bureau. (2023. Arizona County TIGER/Line Shapefiles. [Dataset]. United States Census Bureau. https://www.census.gov/geographies/mapping-files/time-series/geo/tiger-line-file.html. Accessed 12/07/2024.

3.) 
